docs/core-values/index.md, before:

# Pukara Core values

These values are a guide to orienting the decision taking. **When facing a dichotomy, they should be the ones guiding us.**

## **Initiative**

Be the type of person who gets things done, whether independently or through collaboration with others.

The key skill is to set priorities and overcome procrastination.

Continuously seek new ways to perform your job. Be tolerant of failure and persist in your efforts.

Examples:

- In situations where issues arise, proactively seek workarounds and solutions independently before asking for help or escalating the matter
- Proactive Behavior

## **Integrity**

To be honest, trustworthy and ethical in our actions.

It means completing our work on time and acknowledging our mistakes when they occur.

Examples:

- **Don’t lie, please!**
- Be faithful, humble and respectful

## **Ability to adapt/adjust**

We need to be able to change and remain flexible when encountering new or different circumstances.

Examples:

- We might have to pivot our business strategy in response to changes in the market. Or maybe to adopt new technologies as they become available. 
- Willing to change internal processes/policies in order to better serve customers or employees

## **Collaboration**

Be happy to share your knowledge and offer advice, so we can contribute to our colleagues growth and deliver projects faster.

Examples:

- We want employees to work together on projects and to share ideas and resources in order to achieve better outcomes
- Cooperation and mutual support among employees

## **Communication**

Clearly articulate your requirements and feelings to ensure mutual understanding and effective collaboration.

Embrace frameworks for non-violent communication (NVC) to foster a respectful and productive environment.

Examples:

- Don’t be violent and implement frameworks as non-violent communication

## **Curiosity & Passion**

Approach every day by asking questions, staying interested, and never stopping learning.

"The desire to constantly question concepts and processes in order to improve. Curious people are willing to leave their comfort zone and explore the possibilities, as they know the path will lead to progress." (ref [here](https://medium.com/@casafari/building-a-company-based-on-good-values-curiosity-16292acb6fb1))

Examples:

- [Hacker Culture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacker_culture)
- In IT, *troubleshooting* is a very important skill. We find software issues almost every day, to solve them we require curiosity and passion, otherwise we end up with a very frustrating day

## **Inclusion & Diversity**

Organizations should respect and appreciate differences in age, gender, ethnicity, education, physical abilities, race, and religion among individuals

Examples:

- We don’t care if you’re gay, Christian, Muslim, non-binary, etc

## **Commitment**

Be present at work, because you decided to be here and you will do your best

# References

Some references and material to read:

- [Amazon's leadership principles](https://www.aboutamazon.com/about-us/leadership-principles)
- [Turn the ship around](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzJL8zX3EVk)
- [ACCELERATE: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps](https://www.amazon.es/Accelerate-Software-Performing-Technology-Organizations/dp/1942788339)
- [THE PHOENIX PROJECT: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win](https://www.amazon.com/Phoenix-Project-DevOps-Helping-Business/dp/0988262592)
- [Debian Social Contract](https://www.debian.org/social_contract)

Commit message:

feat: improve core values and add must-read material

docs/core-values/index.md, after:

# Pukara Core values

These values serve as our compass, guiding us in every decision we make. **When facing a dichotomy, they should be the ones steering us toward the best course of action**. They define how we work, collaborate, and grow (both individually and as a team). By aligning our actions with these core principles, we ensure that we stay true to our mission and create a workplace built on trust, respect, and continuous improvement.

## **Initiative**

Be the type of person who gets things done, whether independently or through collaboration with others.

The key skill is to set priorities and overcome procrastination.

Continuously seek new ways to perform your job. Be tolerant of failure and persist in your efforts.

Examples:

- In situations where issues arise, proactively seek workarounds and solutions independently before asking for help or escalating the matter
- Proactive Behavior

## **Integrity**

To be honest, trustworthy and ethical in our actions.

It means completing our work on time and acknowledging our mistakes when they occur.

Examples:

- **Don’t lie, please!**
- Be faithful, humble and respectful

## **Ability to Adapt and Adjust**

As a small startup, we often need to wear many hats to achieve our goals. It's crucial that we remain flexible and embrace change when faced with new or unexpected circumstances.

Examples:

- We may need to pivot our business strategy in response to market shifts or adopt new technologies/methodologies as they become available. One constant in our environment is change.
- We might often need to rewrite or modify internal processes and policies, so it's important to remain adaptable in order to better serve our customers and employees.

## **Collaboration**

Actively engage on sharing your knowledge and offer advice, as this helps contribute to the growth of your colleagues and enables us to deliver projects more efficiently.

Examples:

- We encourage employees to collaborate on projects, sharing ideas and resources to achieve better results.
- Cooperation and mutual support among employees are essential not only for accelerating progress but also for fostering a more empathetic and supportive work environment.

## **Communication**

Clearly articulate your needs, expectations, and feelings to ensure mutual understanding and effective collaboration. Implement frameworks like [non-violent communication (NVC)](https://www.cnvc.org/) to foster a respectful and productive environment.

Examples:

- Practice clear, open communication by expressing your thoughts and needs without hostility, using frameworks such as Non-Violent Communication (NVC).
- Provide constructive feedback in a way that encourages understanding and problem-solving, rather than conflict.
- Actively listen to others, ensuring that everyone feels heard and valued during discussions.

## **Curiosity & Passion**

Approach every day by asking questions, staying interested, and never stopping learning.

"_The desire to constantly question concepts and processes in order to improve. Curious people are willing to leave their comfort zone and explore the possibilities, as they know the path will lead to progress._" (ref [here](https://medium.com/@casafari/building-a-company-based-on-good-values-curiosity-16292acb6fb1))

Examples:

- [Hacker Culture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacker_culture)
- In IT, *troubleshooting* is a very important skill. We find software issues almost every day, to solve them we require curiosity and passion, otherwise we end up with a very frustrating day

## **Inclusion & Diversity**

Organizations should respect and appreciate differences in age, gender, ethnicity, education, physical abilities, race, and religion among individuals

Examples:

- We don’t care if you’re gay, Christian, Muslim, non-binary, etc

## **Commitment**

Be fully present and engaged at work, as you’ve made the decision to be here, and you are committed to giving your best effort.

Examples:

- Follow through on your commitments, meeting deadlines and supporting your colleagues when needed.
- Take ownership of your work and hold yourself accountable for delivering high-quality results.

# References

Some references and material to read:

- [Amazon's leadership principles](https://www.aboutamazon.com/about-us/leadership-principles)
- [Turn the ship around](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzJL8zX3EVk)
- [ACCELERATE: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps](https://www.amazon.es/Accelerate-Software-Performing-Technology-Organizations/dp/1942788339)
- [THE PHOENIX PROJECT: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win](https://www.amazon.com/Phoenix-Project-DevOps-Helping-Business/dp/0988262592)
- [Debian Social Contract](https://www.debian.org/social_contract)
